in one point eight point three you can
no longer break bedrock by growing oak
trees so if you're stuck on the top of
the ceiling on the nether the only way
to get down is by building a portal but
if you don't have a flint and steel to
light it or any obsidian to build a
portal you're pretty much stuck that's
why I designed this bedrock door that'll
allow you to go down through the ceiling
of the nether by pressing the button and
holding right click it's really simple
and I'm sure you figured out how it
works already it's just a horse in a
mine cart and pistons extend the line
card up so that the horse pokes through
the bedrock then you can click on the
horse and the Pistons will retract
pulling you back down through the
ceiling the horse does take a little
damage but they regenerate health
however because their regeneration is a
lot slower than a player's you may want
to keep some food on hand sugar seems to
be the cheapest to feed the horse to
regenerate itself didn't work because in
the time it took for me to tell you that
the horses help had already regenerated
but still if you use this a lot you want
to make sure the horse doesn't die
speaking of which you can also use this
to get above the ceiling like so but
because the horse takes damage you might
want to use this method which allows you
to get up but not down in this video I'm
going to show you how to build both the
two-way bedrock door which is of my own
design and uses a horse a minecart and a
triple piston extender as well as the
one-way bedrock door which has been
around for a while and doesn't use any
redstone whatsoever I'll start off with
the one-way door since it's a lot
simpler all you need is one of
everything you see in my hotbar start
off by placing a piston and a slab with
a rail on top of it
put the minecart on the rail put down
the lever and activate the piston now
put a block of your choice on the piston
activate it break the piston and a lever
and you're done to build the two-way
bedrock door you need a three by three
area seven blocks below bedrock with one
block directly below a one-block apt to
the ceiling so there can't be two band
rock like this well like this at this
one point there can be at some other
points which I will explain later but
the lock with the red will has to be
directly below the ceiling you'll start
out by building a triple piston extender
go to the red block and place a piston
slime block another piston and soul San
go down here place slime walks like this
and place one piston right here all the
Pistons of need to be sticky next we're
going to build the activation line in
the way I built it here this also needs
a space that is one below the ceiling
and another that is one will go right
next to it so the torch doesn't burn out
you really only need one of these and it
doesn't have to be directly next to the
block if you put the button on some
other space somewhere else you can press
it and then just move over to the where
the horse goes up all you'll have to do
is connect the wiring but for the
purpose of this tutorial I'm going to
just assume a flat surface like this so
you'll start out with a block here with
redstone on top of it a torch here then
you'll need a block that doesn't stick
to slime blocks below it here with a dot
of redstone and a torch like this now
this will power the slime block and
therefore the piston when it extends so
you will need to place one button right
below here just to redirect redstone
next go over to this piston and built to
box out like this
put a dollar in stone here with a torch
and then go over here build out like
this put a torch here and a dot of
redstone and now your activation line is
finished all you need to do is go up to
the roof of the nether and place the
button here and you can test it out from
here as well now all you need to do is
get your horse in position because the
soul sand is a little bit lower than the
blocks around it the minecart will stay
in place once it's on top so you need to
surround it with blocks that don't stick
to slime blocks and then just bring in
your horse my card so use some powered
rails to get it on top put the block to
prevent it from going too far and power
i'll just sum in a horse here and push
it on now the minecart should be stuck
in place one more thing you need to make
sure before using this is that you
actually tain your horse if you just
snatch it out of the wild and put it
here it might kick you off while you're
riding it so just keep mounting it until
you see the hard particles and then
you'll be done finally if you want to
use it to get on top of the nether like
I did at the beginning of the video
you'll need to put a button that
activates this redstone that you can
reach from the top of the horse so I put
one just right over here and now when
you get on you can press it and get up
to the top the way you get off the horse
you just have to hit the timing right so
when you mount it you want to shift when
it's at its highest and you'll just
automatically be placed on top of the
bedrock like so now I'm just going to go
over briefly which blocks can be bedrock
hanging down and which blocks have to be
one block below the roof so the one with
the horse obviously has to be one block
below the roof and in this building
right here these two blocks also have to
be open because if you can place a block
here it'll burn out and the Steep needs
to be the red stone but if you only have
the one block you can of course move the
wiring so if you remove this here then
you can safely have this be one and you
would have to move this input as well so
say if you have another space with one
over here you can place your button go
down to and place your redstone and then
you would just need to line it up so
that input goes into here which I can't
place a block right now because of the
horse but you get the idea you would
just point the red stone into the block
or if there's bedrock here as well you
could use a repeater and that's it for
this tutorial if you can think of a way
that we can get down from the roof than
other with something that doesn't take
suffocation damage I'd be glad to hear
it but until then I think this is the
best we go so thanks for watching and I
will see you all next time